- [Instructor] Within a JSP page there are
certain constructs used to build each page.
Let's take a closer look at them.
This table outlines the constructs
found within JSP pages, some of which are used frequently
and others that should be avoided.
You'll notice that I've provided both the JSP page syntax
as well as the XML document syntax.
When building a JSP page you will use directives
on almost every JSP page because they provide
instructions to the JSP container on different attributes
about the page, where to insert content
and what tag libraries to include.
You will also frequently use the expression language
to bind to model data within JSP to display dynamic content.
The remaining constructs are sort of relics from the past
when application logic was embedded within JSPs
and should for the most part be avoided.
If you find yourself using these directives,
you are most likely deviating from the MVC pattern.
Here is a JSP example that uses each of the JSP constructs
we discussed to print the time to the page.
You will notice at the top of the file
we have the page directive, which is mandatory.
It indicates that our page is using Java
and specifies the page in coding.
Additionally, we use a tag directive
to include the Java standard tag library, or JSTL.
This provides useful tags for things like iteration
or conditional display of page elements.
Then we use declarations, scriplets, expressions,
expression language, and the expression language
with the JSTL tag to write content dynamically to the page.
To adhere to MVC we should avoid embedding Java code
directly in the page.
It's not necessary and it really clutters it up.
So we really want to stress that you should avoid scriplets,
expressions, and declarations.
But that raises another question.
Where does the JSP get access to that date time attribute
that we're using in the expression language.
Let's take a quick look.
The data came from a servlet that set
an attribute on the request.
Request attributes are a form of server side storage
for a particular request.
They allow data to be attached to the request
for use by other components on the server such as JSPs.
Additionally, you will see that we use an object
of type RequestDispatcher to forward request
processing execution from the servlet to the JSP page.
So it's a way to achieve navigation from a servlet to a JSP.
So that is how we pass data from a servlet to a JSP.
However, there are a few other pieces of data
a JSP has access to known as implicit objects.
We'll take a look quickly at the implicit objects.
They're objects that you can reference
using the expression language directly in a JSP page
without actually declaring them.
You can see the objects available
and their descriptions.
I'll just point out that the request, session,
and page context are the most widely used
implicit objects when we're building our JSP pages
because they provide access to some of the most
common data we need when displaying dynamic content.
So that's an overview of the parts of a JSP.
Let's get hands on with the technology.